What is alert?
Alert is a notification generated by a security solution when a specific event or sequence of events occurs, it saves SOC analysts from manual log review by highlighting only suspicious, anomalous events.

#SIEM System 
Eg: Splunk ES, Elastic
SIEM have solid alert management capabilities and are a perfect choice for most SOC teams.

#EDR/NDR
Eg: MS Defender, CrowdStrike
EDR and NDR provide their own alert dashboards, but it is preferred to use SIEM or SOAR.

#SOAR System
Eg:  Splunk SOAR, Cortex SOAR
Bigger SOC teams can use SOAR to aggregate and centralise alerts from multiple solutions.

#ITSM System
Eg: Jira, TheHive
Some teams may have a custom ticket management (ITSM) setup using a dedicated solution.

SOC L1 analysts are the first line of defence, and they are the ones who work with alerts the most. 


#SOC L1 analysts:  
Review the alerts, distinguish bad from good, and notify L2 analysts in case of a real threat
    
#SOC L2 analysts:
Receive the alerts escalated by L1 analysts and perform deeper analysis and remediation

#SOC engineers: 
Ensure the alerts contain enough information required for efficient alert triage

#SOC manager:
Track speed and quality of alert triage to ensure that real attacks won't be missed

#Alert Properties:

1) Alert Time: Shows alert creation time. Alert usually triggers a few minutes after the actual event.
2) Alert Name: Provides a summary of what happened, based on the detection rule's name
3) Alert Severity: Defines the urgency of the alert, initially set by detection engineers, but can be altered by analysts if needed
4) Alert Status: Informs if somebody is working on the alert or if the triage is done
5) Alert Verdict: Also called alert classification, explains if the alert is a real threat or noise
6) Alert Assignee: Shows the analyst that was assigned or assigned themselves to review the alert
7) Alert Description: Explains what the alert is about, usually in three sections on the right
8) Alert Fields: Provides SOC analysts' comments and values on which the alert was triggered

#Steps for Picking the Right Alert:
1) Filter the alerts
2) Sort by severity
3) Sort by time
4) Investigation
5) Final Actions

